# Dublin-bike-utilization-analysis
Analysis of “Dublin bikes utilization whilst raining” using Hadoop Map Reduce.

These days a trend has been seen where people are taking their physical health more seriously. In order to achieve this, they use various means like walking, cycling and doing workout whenever they get leisure time. Many individuals choose cycling as their mode of transport for traveling short distances since it is cost effective as well as health effective. It is observed that, weather conditions also play an important role in individual’s activities. Cyclists often circumvent usage of bikes while it is raining, but still some cyclists do not get affected by any weather changes and continue to travel via bicycle. It has also been witnessed that traffic signals are installed near the entrances of many offices, schools and colleges to avoid chances of accidents. As per our study, it has noticed that the Dublin bikes stand has been installed within defined range of traffic signals. This makes it convenient for one to opt for bicycle to travel to and from their home to work/school/college. There is currently 100+ bike stand existing in all over Dublin. Hence, there is a high probability that an individual will pick bicycle which is nearer to an entrance/exit of their office/school/college which directly or indirectly relates to traffic signal. In this study we will analyse the trend of public picking bikes from the bike stand which is near to Traffic signal considering weather fluctuations.
